<!-- Generated by knitr: do not edit by hand. Please edit the content in README.Rmd -->

# pedometrics: Miscellaneous Pedometric Tools

[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable
state and is being actively
developed.](http://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](http://www.repostatus.org/#active)
[![packageversion](https://img.shields.io/badge/devel%20version-0.11.1-firebrick.svg?style=flat-square)](commits/master)
[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/samuel-rosa/pedometrics.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/samuel-rosa/pedometrics)
[![CRAN](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/pedometrics)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=pedometrics)
[![cran
checks](https://cranchecks.info/badges/worst/pedometrics)](https://cran.r-project.org/web/checks/check_results_pedometrics.html)
[![Rdoc](http://www.rdocumentation.org/badges/version/pedometrics)](http://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/pedometrics)
[![Downloads](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/pedometrics?color=brightgreen)](http://www.r-pkg.org/pkg/pedometrics)

The **pedometrics** package was originally created to share the
developments of my PhD research project entitled *Contribution to the
Construction of Models for Predicting Soil Properties* (2012-2016)
carried out under the supervision of Dr Lucia HC Anjos (Universidade
Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil), Dr Gustavo M Vasques (Embrapa
Solos, Brazil), and Dr Gerard BM Heuvelink (ISRIC – World Soil
Information, the Netherlands). The idea of creating a package came from
an observation that was bothering me for some time: several of the
pedometric methods that I saw on published scientific papers were not
being broadly employed as I would expect. But why? The answer seemed
straightforward: because they were not available as a computer program
ready to be used. This was also making it difficult to reproduce the
analyses carried out by others. Creating a generic package for R – a
popular programming language among pedometricians – could be a solution.

The current **pedometrics** package is an implementation of
miscellaneous functions for various pedometric purposes. This includes
the calibration of multiple linear regression models, the computation of
summary validation statistics, the generation of plots, the evaluation
of the local quality of a geostatistical model of uncertainty, and so
on. Other functions simply extend the functionalities of or facilitate
the usage of functions from other packages that are commonly used for
the analysis of pedometric data. Among these, one of the functions that
I find very useful is `plotESDA()`. This function creates four plots for
exploratory spatial data analysis (ESDA): a histogram + density plot, a
bubble plot, a variogram plot, and a variogram map. The figure below
shows the result for the zinc concentration in the Meuse river data set.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/laboratorio-de-pedometria/pedometrics/master/inst/extdata/plot-esda.png)

## Installation

The latest stable version of the **pedometrics** package generally can
be installed from the Comprehensive R Archive Network
([CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=pedometrics)).

    # Install package pedometrics from CRAN
    install.packages(pkgs = "pedometrics")

If installation from CRAN fails, you can install the development version
of the **pedometrics** package available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/laboratorio-de-pedometria/pedometrics-package)
using the **remotes** package. If you are using a
[Windows](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/) machine, however, you
will need to install
[Rtools](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/) first.

    # Install package pedometrics from GitHub
    if (!require(remotes)) {
      install.packages(pkgs = "remotes")
    }
    remotes::install_github(repo = "laboratorio-de-pedometria/pedometrics")

## How to collaborate

We use the *fork & pull* collaborative development model. This means
that you have the freedom to make a parallel copy – *fork* – of this
repository, edit the source code as you see fit and then send – *push* –
the changes to your personal copy of this repository. You can do all
this without asking any permission. In case the changes that you have
made in your personal copy of this repository are interesting and you
have the interest of sharing them with us, then all you have to do is
require them to be pushed – *pull request* – to this repository. After a
review of the changes, we will decide if they can be merged – *merge* –
with the source code of this repository.
